So the first problem over here, it says a tennis ball is thrown straight up with initial speed or initial
velocity of twenty two point five meters per second.
It is the same distance above the ground.
How high does the ball rise?
How long this ball in the air and just a little hint, the time it takes the ball to rise is equal to
the time it takes to fall.
OK, and we already know that.
So I guess I could just remove that hand.
OK, so what is the given information that we have here?
So first of all, let's talk about what's happening here.
A tennis ball is being thrown straight up in the air with this amount of speed and it's quite the same
distance.
OK, so right off the bat.
What is the initial height of the ball?
Zero, right?
And what is the final flight of the ball?
Zero meters, right?
Initial velocity is twenty two point five meters per second.
How hard is the ball rise?
OK, wait a minute.
So we're trying to find out how high rises this is, trying to get a little confusing here.
This is the initial position and this is the final position.
You know what?
Let's take a little break here.
Let's I just want to show you a little something.
I'm just going to erase this information.
OK, well, safe, I wasn't given the initial velocity.
OK, so if I wasn't given initial velocity in this problem and what so we know that the initial velocity
is equal to the final velocity, right.
But if I wasn't given the initial velocity, then I also wouldn't be given the final velocity.
And those would be two unknowns right off the bat.
And that's going to make our problem very complicated.
I don't like that.
That's that's going to be a nuisance for us.
Right.
But we do know that this trajectory is very symmetric.
Here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to drop a dotted line.
Down here like this.
And let's say this, let's say that the initial position.
It's over here.
So this is our initial height right here, and let's say that the final height.
Is up here.
Hey, you know what?
OK, so if we're to do that, what is the what is the benefit of saying that this is the initial position,
that initial height and this is the final height?
Well, what's nice here is that we know that the velocity here at this at this point in the highest
level is why.
Zero meters per second.
So right off the bat, if we set it up like this, say, if we just ignore all of this and we just say,
hey, know what, this is going to be the national position in this is going to be the final position.
What do we know right away?
Hey, and what this is going to be the final velocity at this point, which is at the highest point,
are at the highest point of its trajectory.
So that's nice.
I like that a lot.
That idea that we know a piece of given information or right off the bat.
So let's do that.
Let's once again, we're just going to ignore it for now.
And we do know that the object is going to fall back to the ground and hit the ground.
So we'll keep that in mind.
So we do know that the initial speed, the initial velocity is twenty two point five meters per second,
if we're defining that this is the top of the trajectory, then the final velocity will be zero meters
per second.
We're defining that another piece of information that we have is what is our acceleration?
What's the acceleration due to gravity?
Right.
We have the force of gravity acting on this object throughout the entire trajectory.
So what's the acceleration?
And we also we have oh, what's the initial height of this object?
Look at all this information that we're pulling out.
How hard is the.
OK, so it looks like that this is what we're trying to find here.
How long does the ball remain in the air?
OK, so.
The reason why we actually just did that last, that task where we had the tea rise and the tea fall
I'm sorry, tea total and tea for was simply because of this right now.
OK, so we are defining that this is the initial position or defining that this is the final position,
if that's the case, if we solve for time, understand the idea that you're solving for the time from
here to here.
Let's say that this is equal to let's call it three seconds.
If this is three seconds from here to here, what is the total time?
It's asking us how long does a ball remain in the air from here to here?
It's three seconds.
The balls in the air for a total of six seconds, the total time.
So that's the reason why we're doing this.
All right.
So we're trying to find out.
This, but when we calculate this, what we'll find is that because we're saying that the initial position
is here and the final position is here, if that doesn't make sense, rewind this video and play it
again.
OK, so let's do this.
Let's do our calculations right now, being that we talked a lot about the time and everything.
Let's calculate that first.
So if we're trying to find out what the time is, what's the variable that we simply don't care about?
Our final hyp.
OK, so coming over here, what is the kinematic equation that we're going to be using, we don't care
about the final height, right?
So do we have final say over here, Wyeth?
No.
Do we have Wyeth over here?
Yep.
Right there.
Do we have Wyeth in this equation?
Oh, yes.
Yep, right there.
And do we have wife in this equation?
OK, so that's right there.
And so process of elimination once again helps us out, finding out which which equation to use to find
our identity.
So that equation once again was Veth.
OK, so now all we have to do is plug in our given information cell from there so the earth is equal
to zero.
Once again, this being the final position that from the height of the ball, maximum height zero.
And initially we are traveling and while the object is traveling at the speed date of nine point eighty
and the Delta T is what we're interested in.
OK.
OK, so we have here twenty two point five plus a negative nine point eight times Delta T, we have
two terms here.
Terms are once again separated by positive signs and negative signs.
What we want to do here is isolate the Delta T so this term over here, we're going to leave this alone
for now.
Let's get rid of our positive twenty two point five.
How do you go about doing that?
But subtract twenty two point five by both sides of the equation and we're left with our negative nine
point eight times Delta T.
OK, so once again, we're going to be isolating our Delta T so we have a multiplication of negative
nine point eight, how to get rid of a multiplication of negative negative nine point eight divided
by negative nine point eight on both sides of the equation.
I'm going to do this in the calculator right now and see what we get.
Keep in mind that once again, we have twenty two point five I'm sorry, negative, twenty two point
five divided by a negative nine point eight.
So what are we expecting?
A positive answer?
A negative answer?
Keep that in mind and we get our answer of two point three seconds.
As equal to our Delta T. But once again, we did that for.
This is our initial position, that's our final position, the way that we know that this is definitely
our final position is because we're saying that the final velocity here at this point is equal to zero.
We toss the ball straight up.
It's to go up, up, up, up, up, pause.
And we're defining that to be our final position, our final position.
And we know that because our final velocity is zero.
So the time that we got is two point three seconds.
That's this time right here.
What we're really interested in is the total time.
So what is the value of the total time?
If the time to rise is two point three seconds, do this in your head.
Four point six seconds, right?
All right, and that's the first problem.
OK, so.
Now that we got that, we're going to carve out for our Wyeth, what is the.
It's asking us how high does ball rise, that's the why, if this is the initial position, that's the
final position.
The final position will tell us how high the ball rises.
So let's find out our why and what do we do.
We say to ourselves, I don't care what Delta team is equal to.
I'm just going to come right back over here.
Let's clean this up a little bit.
Give me a quick second over here.
Please be patient.
There we go.
So we we are going to be saying that we don't care about our Delta T because we're searching for our
Y path, OK?
So let's look for our Delta teams coming through here.
We got Delta T. right there.
I'm just going to stay consistent.
Let's go with our read, OK?
Coming through here, we got Delta T. right there.
You that one Delta T twice in this formula.
So we're obviously not going to be using that one.
And we will be using this one over here because it doesn't have the Delta T..
Let's write out that formula.
Make sure that you write this out.
Correct.
Okay, and that looks good, right?
Uh, so here we go, what's the are plugging this in and solving out for once again our why on earth.
So we have squared.
Zero squared.
Twenty two point five squared.
OK, so we know right off the bat the subtraction of zero is not going can actually do anything for
us neither.
So we have zero squared over here.
We can't really cross this out being that it's the only thing that's on the left hand side the equation.
We can't cross that out.
We're just gonna drop down our zero.
That's a nice little placeholder for us.
All right.
So let's simplify this.
What's twenty two point five square?
Twenty point five times, twenty two point five.
We got five oh six point twenty five plus.
OK, well, oh, we have positive two times and negative nine point eight.
Will that result in a positive or negative number that's going to result in a negative number that's
going to result in negative nineteen point six and that's being multiplied by y ath.
Once again, we have two terms over here.
Terms once again are being separated by plus signs and minus signs.
We have a five or six point twenty five minus nineteen point six times are Wyeth.
We're trying to isolate our Wyeth, so let's get rid of our positive five or six point twenty five by
subtracting five or six point twenty five on both sides of the equation.
OK, so we have a multiplication of negative nineteen point six, so we have to divide by negative nineteen
point six on both sides, question will have a negative divide by negative.
So therefore we'll get a positive answer.
And that will be so we have that divide that by nineteen point six were negative, nineteen point six
and we have twenty five point let's call it a.
Mehta's.
Know what, this should be a state right here if you're running correctly.
OK, so there you go.
Once again, the key thing to remember here is this I just make sure that you understand the concept
of this is our initial position, this is our final position, and that's the way I'm going to be treating
all these problems.
We're just going to have to consider when we solve out for our Delta T, are we solving out for the
T rise or teetotal?
If we want our answer to be the total and we calculate out that he rise, then what we have to do is
multiply that by two to get our total.